Add Kandinsky 2.1 (#3308)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/en/api/pipelines/kandinsky.mdx

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Kandinsky

## Overview

> Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practicies from Dall-E 2 and Latent diffusion, while introducing some new ideas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practices from [DALL-E 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) and [Latent Diffusion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752), while introducing some new ideas.
```

> As text and image encoder it uses CLIP model and diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach increases the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practices from [DALL-E 2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.06125) and [Latent Diffusion](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.10752), while introducing some new ideas.
```

> As text and image encoder it uses CLIP model and diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach increases the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses [CLIP](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/clip) for encoding images and text, and a diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach enhances the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.
```

The Kandinsky model in diffusers comes from ai-forever and the original codebase can be found [here](https://github.com/ai-forever/Kandinsky-2)

## Available Pipelines:

| Pipeline | Tasks | Colab
|---|---|:---:|
| [pipeline_kandinsky.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky.py) | *Text-to-Image Generation* | - |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_inpaint.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* | - |
| [pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/main/src/diffusers/pipelines/kandinsky/pipeline_kandinsky_img2img.py) | *Image-Guided Image Generation* | - |

## Usage example

> In the following, we will walk you through some cool examples of using Kandinsky pipelines to create incredible artwork beyond imagination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, we will walk you through some cool examples of using the Kandinsky pipelines to create some visually aesthetic artwork.
```

The previous was sounding a bit too affirmative. I think it makes sense to not do that in the documentation. Let the users be the judge of that :)

### Text-to-Image Generation

> For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline] and [`KandinskyPipeline`]. The first step is to create CLIP image embedding conditioned on a text prompt. Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it will come up with :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] and [`KandinskyPipeline`]. The first step is to create CLIP image embedding conditioned on a text prompt. Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it comes up with :)
```

> For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] and [`KandinskyPipeline`]. The first step is to create CLIP image embedding conditioned on a text prompt. Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it comes up with :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For text-to-image generation, we need to use both [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] and [`KandinskyPipeline`]. The first step is to encode text prompts with CLIP and then diffuse the CLIP text embeddings to CLIP image embeddings, as first proposed in [DALL-E 2](https://cdn.openai.com/papers/dall-e-2.pdf). Let's throw a fun prompt at Kandinsky to see what it comes up with :)
```

```python
prompt = "A alien cheeseburger creature eating itself, claymation, cinematic, moody lighting"
negative_prompt = "low quality, bad quality"
```

> You should create the CLIP image embeddings for both your `prompt` and `negavie_prompt`. Also, the prior pipeline we use to create these CLIP image embeddings is a diffusion model itself, so you can use `negative_prompt`, `guidance_scale`, and `num_inference_steps` arguments to guide this process, just like how you would normally do with all other pipelines in diffusers.

Reviewer: As a user, this is a bit confusing to me -- creating image embeddings from prompts (i.e., text content). Worth clarifying this bit I think.

```python
from diffusers import KandinskyPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline
import torch

> # create prior

Author: yep yep once an agreement is made :)

> # create prior

Author: updated!

> You should create the CLIP image embeddings for both your `prompt` and `negavie_prompt`. Also, the prior pipeline we use to create these CLIP image embeddings is a diffusion model itself, so you can use `negative_prompt`, `guidance_scale`, and `num_inference_steps` arguments to guide this process, just like how you would normally do with all other pipelines in diffusers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will pass both the `prompt` and `negative_prompt` to our prior diffusion pipeline. In contrast to other diffusion pipelines, such as Stable Diffusion, the `prompt` and `negative_prompt` shall be passed separately so that we can retrieve a CLIP image embedding for each prompt input. You can use `guidance_scale`, and `num_inference_steps` arguments to guide this process, just like how you would normally do with all other pipelines in diffusers.
```

> from diffusers import KandinskyPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from diffusers import KandinskyPriorPipeline
```

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

generator = torch.Generator(device="cuda").manual_seed(12)
image_emb = pipe_prior(
    prompt, guidance_scale=1.0, num_inference_steps=25, generator=generator, negative_prompt=negative_prompt
).images

zero_image_emb = pipe_prior(
    negative_prompt, guidance_scale=1.0, num_inference_steps=25, generator=generator, negative_prompt=negative_prompt

> ).images

Reviewer: Consider discussing why the `guidance_scale` is so low.

```

Once we create the image embedding, we can use [`KandinskyPipeline`] to generate images.

```python

> from PIL import Image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from PIL import Image
from diffusers import KandinskyPipeline
```

def image_grid(imgs, rows, cols):
    assert len(imgs) == rows * cols

    w, h = imgs[0].size
    grid = Image.new("RGB", size=(cols * w, rows * h))
    grid_w, grid_h = grid.size

    for i, img in enumerate(imgs):
        grid.paste(img, box=(i % cols * w, i // cols * h))
    return grid

# create diffuser pipeline
pipe = KandinskyPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

images = pipe(
    prompt,
    image_embeds=image_emb,
    negative_image_embeds=zero_image_emb,
    num_images_per_prompt=2,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    num_inference_steps=100,
    guidance_scale=4.0,
    generator=generator,
).images
```

One cheeseburger monster coming up! Enjoy! 

> ![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/cheeseburger.png)

Reviewer: The image paths need to be corrected it seems?

Author: corrected!

> Kandinsky model works really extremely well with creative prompts. Here is some of the amazing art we created using exact same process but different prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kandinsky model works extremely well with creative prompts. Here is some of the amazing art we created using the exact same process but with different prompts.
```

```python
prompt = "bird eye view shot of a full body woman with cyan light orange magenta makeup, digital art, long braided hair her face separated by makeup in the style of yin Yang surrealism, symmetrical face, real image, contrasting tone, pastel gradient background"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/hair.png)

```python
prompt = "A car exploding into colorful dust"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/dusts.png)

```python
prompt = "editorial photography of an organic, almost liquid smoke style armchair"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/smokechair.png)

```python
prompt = "birds eye view of a quilted paper style alien planet landscape, vibrant colours, Cinematic lighting"
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/alienplanet.png)

> 

Reviewer: If you have more examples, feel free to log them on Weights and Biases and leave a link here. Optional, though.

### Text Guided Image-to-Image Generation

The same Kandinsky model weights can be used for text-guided image-to-image translation. In this case, just make sure to load the weights using the [`KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline`] pipeline.

**Note**: You can also directly move the weights of the text-to-image pipelines to the image-to-image pipelines

> without loading them twice by making use of the [`~DiffusionPipeline.components()`] function as explained [here](#converting-between-different-pipelines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without loading them twice by making use of the [`~DiffusionPipeline.components`] function as explained [here](#converting-between-different-pipelines).
```

    prompt,
    image=original_image,
    image_embeds=image_emb,
    negative_image_embeds=zero_image_emb,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    num_inference_steps=500,
    strength=0.3,
)

out.images[0].save("fantasy_land.png")
```

![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/img2img_fantasyland.png)

### Text Guided Inpainting Generation

You can use [`KandinskyInpaintPipeline`] to edit images. In this example, we will add a hat to the portrait of a cat.

```python
from diffusers import KandinskyInpaintPipeline, KandinskyPriorPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import torch
import numpy as np

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

prompt = "a hat"
image_emb, zero_image_emb = pipe_prior(prompt, return_dict=False)

pipe = KandinskyInpaintPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky-inpaint", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

init_image = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

mask = np.ones((768, 768), dtype=np.float32)

> mask[:250, 250:-250] = 0

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment before this block?

> mask[:250, 250:-250] = 0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Let's mask out an area above the cat's head
mask[:250, 250:-250] = 0
```

    image_embeds=image_emb,
    negative_image_embeds=zero_image_emb,
    height=768,
    width=768,
    num_inference_steps=150,
)

image = out.images[0]
image.save("cat_with_hat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/inpaint_cat_hat.png)

### Interpolate 

The [`KandinskyPriorPipeline`] also comes with a cool utility function that will allow you to interpolate the latent space of different images and texts super easily. Here is an example of how you can create an Impressionist-style portrait for your pet based on "The Starry Night". 

```python
from diffusers import KandinskyPriorPipeline, KandinskyPipeline
from diffusers.utils import load_image
import PIL

import torch
from torchvision import transforms

pipe_prior = KandinskyPriorPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky-prior", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe_prior.to("cuda")

img1 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/cat.png"
)

img2 = load_image(
    "https://huggingface.co/datasets/hf-internal-testing/diffusers-images/resolve/main" "/kandinsky/starry_night.jpeg"
)

> images_texts = ["a cat", img1, img2]

Author: done

weights = [0.3, 0.3, 0.4]
image_emb, zero_image_emb = pipe_prior.interpolate(images_texts, weights)

pipe = KandinskyPipeline.from_pretrained("YiYiXu/Kandinsky", torch_dtype=torch.float16)
pipe.to("cuda")

image = pipe(
    "", image_embeds=image_emb, negative_image_embeds=zero_image_emb, height=768, width=768, num_inference_steps=150
).images[0]

image.save("starry_cat.png")
```
![img](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/diffusers/kandinsky-docs/starry_cat.png)

> ## KandinskyPipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## KandinskyPriorPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPriorPipeline
	- all
	- __call__
	- interpolate
	
## KandinskyPipeline
```

[[autodoc]] KandinskyPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

> [[autodoc]] KandinskyInpaintPipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## KandinskyInpaintPipeline

[[autodoc]] KandinskyInpaintPipeline
```

	- all

> 	- __call__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	- __call__
	
## KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline
```

[[autodoc]] KandinskyImg2ImgPipeline
	- all
	- __call__

> [[autodoc]] KandinskyPriorPipeline
> 	- all
> 	- __call__
> 	- interpolate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Let's move this up to be the 1st pipeline

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/pull/3308/files#r1203866574

<!--Copyright 2023 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
-->

# Kandinsky

## Overview

Kandinsky 2.1 inherits best practicies from Dall-E 2 and Latent diffusion, while introducing some new ideas.

As text and image encoder it uses CLIP model and diffusion image prior (mapping) between latent spaces of CLIP modalities. This approach increases the visual performance of the model and unveils new horizons in blending images and text-guided image manipulation.

> The Kandinsky model in diffusers comes from ai-forever and the original codebase can be found [here](https://github.com/ai-forever/Kandinsky-2)

Reviewer 2: Let's add some cool use cases / examples here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kandinsky model in diffusers comes from `ai-forever` and the original codebase can be found [here](https://github.com/ai-forever/Kandinsky-2).
```

Author: @patrickvonplaten is this mention ok here?
